BOOK IV.
I.   The King and his Old and New Enemies
II.   The Three Officers
III.   Ranuzi
IV.   Louise du Trouffle
V.   The Fortune-Teller
VI.   A Court Day in Berlin
VII.   In the Window-Niche
VIII.   The Nutshells behind the Fauteuil of the Queen
IX.   The Duel and its Consequences
X.   The Five Couriers
XI.   After the Battle
XII.   A Heroic Soul
XIII.   The Two Grenadiers
XIV.   The Right Counsel
XV.   A Hero in Misfortune
BOOK V.
I.   The Teresiani and the Prussiani
II.   Frederick the Great as a Saint
III.   The Cloister Brothers of San Giovanni e Paolo
IV.   The Return from the Army
V.   The Brave Fathers and the Cowardly Sons
VI.   The Traitor's Betrayal
VII.   The Accusation
VIII.   Revenge
IX.   Trenck
X.   "Trenck, are you there?"
XI.   The King and the German Scholar
XII.   Gellert
XIII.   The Poet and the King
XIV.   The King and the Village Magistrate
XV.   The Proposal of Marriage
XVI.   The Ambassador and the Khan of Tartary
BOOK VI.
I.   The King's Return
II.   Prince Henry
III.   Mother and Daughter
IV.   The King in Sans-Souci
V.   The Engraved Cup
VI.   The Princess and the Diplomatist
VII.   The Royal House-Spy
VIII.   The Clouds Gather
IX.   Brother and Sister
X.   The Stolen Child
XI.   The Discovery
XII.   The Morning at Sans-Souci
XIII.   A Husband's Revenge
XIV.   The Separation
BOOK I.
CHAPTER I. THE KING.
The king laid his flute aside, and with his hands folded behind his
back, walked thoughtfully up and down his room in Sans-Souci. His
countenance was now tranquil, his brow cloudless; with the aid of music
he had harmonized his soul, and the anger and displeasure he had so
shortly before felt were soothed by the melodious notes of his flute.
The king was no longer angry, but melancholy, and the smile that played
on his lip was so resigned and painful that the brave Marquis d'Argens
would have wept had he seen it, and the stinging jest of Voltaire have
been silenced.
But neither the marquis nor Voltaire, nor any of his friends were at
present in Potsdam. D'Argens was in France, with his young wife, Barbe
Cochois; Voltaire, after a succession of difficulties and quarrels, had
departed forever; General Rothenberg had also departed to a land from
which no one returns--he was dead! My lord marshal had returned to
Scotland, Algarotti to Italy, and Bastiani still held his office in
Breslau. Sans-Souci, that had been heretofore the seat of joy and
laughing wit--Sans-Souci was now still and lonely; youth, beauty, and
gladness had forsaken it forever; earnestness and duty had taken their
place, and reigned in majesty within those walls that had so often
echoed with the happy laugh and sparkling jest of the king's friends and
contemporaries.
Frederick thought of this, as with folded hands he walked up and down,
and recalled the past. Sunk in deep thought, he remained standing before
a picture that hung on the wall above his secretary, which represented
Barbarina in the fascinating costume of a shepherdess, as he had seen
her for the first time ten years ago; it had been painted by Pesne for
the king. What recollections, what dreams arose before the king's soul
as he gazed at that bewitching and lovely face; at those soft, melting
eyes, whose glance had once made him so happy! But that was long ago;
