respected as a saint by my poor brother! No, madame! I shall know how
to save him from this delusion; I shall tell to him and the world the
history of little Louise von Schwerin! Fritz Wendel still lives, and, if
you desire it, I can release him, and he may tell his romantic story."
"Oh, for the second time to-day I have heard that hateful name!" cried
Louise; "the past is an avenger that pursues us mercilessly through our
whole lives."
"Choose, madame!" said the king, after a pause; "will you announce your
betrothal to my brother in a gay and unembarrassed tone, or shall I
call Fritz Wendel, that he may sing the unhappy prince to sleep with his
romantic history?"
Whilst the king spoke, Louise had raised herself slowly from her knees,
and taken a seat upon the divan. Now rising, and bowing lowly, she said,
with trembling lips and tearful voice: "Sire, I am prepared to do all
that you wish. I shall announce my betrothal to the prince cheerfully,
and without sighs or tears. But be merciful, and free me forever from
that hideous spectre which seems ever at my side!"
"Do you mean poor Fritz Wendel?" said the king, smiling.
"Well, on the day of your marriage I will send him as a soldier to
Poland: there he may relate his love-adventures, but no one will
understand him. Are you content?"
"I thank you, sire," said Louise, faintly.
"Ah, I see our conversation has agitated you a little!" said the king.
"Fortunately, we are now at an end. In the next eight days, remember,
you will be engaged!"
"Yes, sire."
"The day of your marriage, I will make your captain a major. You promise
to tell my brother of your engagement, and that it is in accordance with
the warmest wishes of your heart?"
"Yes, sire; and you will banish the gardener forever?"
"I will; but wait--one thing more. Where will you tell my brother of
your engagement, and before what witnesses?"
"At the place and before the witnesses your majesty may select," said
Madame von Kleist.
The king thought a moment. "You will do it in my presence," said he; "I
will let you know the time and place through Pollnitz. We have arranged
our little affairs, madame, and we will descend to the saloon where, I
think, your epouseur is sighing for your presence."
"Let him sigh, sire! With your permission, I should like to retire."
"Go, madame, where you wish. Pollnitz will conduct you to your
carriage."
He offered her his hand, and, with a friendly bow, led her to the door.
"Farewell, madame! I believe we part friends?"
"Sire," she answered, smiling faintly, "I can only say as the soldiers
do, 'I thank you for your gracious punishment!'"
She bowed and left the room hastily, that the king might not see her
tears.
CHAPTER V. A SECRET CAPTAIN.
The king looked long after her in silence; at first with an expression
of deep pity, but this soon gave place to a gay, mocking smile.
"She is not a woman to take sorrow earnestly. When mourning no longer
becomes her, she will lay it aside for the rosy robes of joy. She is a
coquette, nothing more. It is useless to pity her."
He now stepped upon the balcony that overlooked the saloon, and glanced
furtively from behind the curtains upon the gay assembly below.
"Poor, foolish mankind! how wise you might be, if you were not so very
childish--if you did not seek joy and happiness precisely where it is
not to be found! But how is this?" said the king, interrupting himself,
"those two giant forms at the side of the little Armenians are certainly
Barons Kalkreuth and Kaphengst, and that is my brother with them. Poor
Henry! you have made a bad use of your freedom, and must, therefore,
soon lose it. Ah! see how searchingly he turns his head, seeking his
beautiful odalisque! In vain, my brother, in vain! For to-day, at least,
we have made her a repentant Magdalen; to-morrow she will be again
a life-enjoying Aspasia. Ah, the prince separates himself from
his followers. I have a few words to whisper in the ear of the gay
Kaphengst."
The king stepped back into the room, and after resuming his mask, he
descended into the saloon, accompanied by his grand chamberlain.
Mirth and gayety reigned; the room was crowded with masks. Here stood
