a group in gay conversation; there was dancing at the other end of the
saloon. Some were listening to the organ-player, as he sang, in comical
German and French verses, little incidents and adventures that had
occurred during the present year at court, bringing forth laughter,
confused silence, and blushes. Some were amusing themselves with the
lively, witty chat of the son of the Prince of Prussia, the little
ten-year-old, Prince Frederick William. He was dressed as the God of
Love, with bow and quiver, dancing around, and, with an early-ripened
instinct, directing his arrow at the most beautiful and fascinating
ladies in the room.

Prince Henry paid no attention to all this; his wandering glance sought
only the beautiful Louise, and a deep sigh escaped him at not having
found her. Hastily he stepped through the rows of dancers which
separated the two cavaliers from him.

"It appears," murmured Baron Kalkreuth to his friend, "it appears to me
that the prince would like to get rid of us. He wishes to be entirely
unobserved. I think we can profit by this, and therefore I shall take
leave of you for a while, and seek my own adventures."

"I advise you," murmured Baron Kaphengst, laughingly, "to appoint no
rendezvous for to-morrow."

"And why not, friend?"

"Because you will not be able to appear; for you will doubtless be in
arrest."

"That is true, and I thank you for your prudent advice, and shall
arrange all my rendezvous for the day after to-morrow. Farewell."

Baron Kaphengst turned laughingly to another part of the saloon.
Suddenly he felt a hand placed on his shoulder, and a low voice murmured
his name.

Terrified, he turned. "I am not the one you seek, mask," he said; but as
he met those two large, burning eyes, he shuddered, and even his bold,
daring heart stood still a moment from terror. Only the king had such
eyes; only he had such a commanding glance.

"You say you are not the one I seek," said the mask. "Well, yes, you
speak wisely. I sought in you a brave and obedient officer, and it
appears that you are not that. You are not, then, Lieutenant von
Kaphengst?"

Kaphengst thought a moment. He was convinced it was the king that
spoke with him, for Frederick had not attempted to disguise his voice.
Kaphengst knew he was discovered. There remained nothing for him but to
try and reconcile the king by a jest.

He bowed close to the king, and whispered: "Listen, mask--as you have
recognized me, I will acknowledge the truth. Yes, I am Lieutenant von
Kaphengst, and am incognito. You understand me--I came to this ball
incognito. He is a scoundrel who repeats it!" and, without awaiting
an answer, he hastened away to seek the prince and Baron Kalkreuth,
acquaint them with the king's presence, and fly with them from his
anger.

But Prince Henry, whose fruitless search for his sweetheart had made
him angry and defiant, declared he would remain at the ball until it was
over, and that it should be optional with the king to insult his brother
openly, and to punish and humble a prince of his house before the world.

"I, unfortunately, do not belong to the princes of the royal house, and
I therefore fear that the king might regard me as the cat who had to
pull the hot chestnuts from the ashes, and I might suffer for all three.
I therefore pray your highness to allow me to withdraw."

"You may go, and if you meet Kalkreuth, ask him to accompany you. You
officers must not carry your insubordination any further. I, as prince,
and Hohenzollern, dare the worst, but, be assured, I shall pay for my
presumption. Farewell, and hasten! Do not forget Kalkreuth."

Kaphengst sought in vain. Kalkreuth was nowhere to be found, and he had
to wend his way alone to Potsdam.

"I shall take care not to await the order of the king for my arrest,"
said Baron Kaphengst to himself, as he rode down the road to Potsdam. "I
shall be in arrest when his order arrives. Perhaps that will soften his
anger."

Accordingly, when Kaphengst arrived at the court guard, in Potsdam, he
assumed the character of a drunken, quarrelsome officer, and played his
role so well that the commander placed him in arrest.

An hour later the king's order reached the commander to arrest Baron
Kaphengst, and with smiling astonishment he received the answer that he
had been under arrest for the last hour.

In the mean time, Kaphengst had not miscalculated. The prince was put
under arrest for eight days, Kalkreuth for three. He was released the
next morning, early enough to appear at the parade. As the king,
with his generals, rode down to the front, he immediately noticed the
audacious young officer, whose eye met his askance and pleadingly. The
king beckoned to him, and as Baron Kaphengst stood erect before him, the
king said, laughingly; "It is truly difficult to exchange secrets with
one of your height; bow down to me, I have something to whisper in you
ear."

