The comrades and officers, yes, even the generals, saw not without envy
that the king was so gracious to the young Lieutenant von Kaphengst;
whispered a few words to him confidentially, and then smiling and bowing
graciously, moved on.
It was, therefore, natural that, when the king left, all were anxious
to congratulate the young lieutenant, and ask him what the king had
whispered. But Baron Kaphengst avoided, with dignified gravity, all
inquiries, and only whispered to his commander softly, but loud
enough for every one to hear, the words, "State secrets," then bowing
profoundly, returned with an earnest and grave face to his dwelling,
there to meditate at his leisure upon the king's words--words both
gracious and cruel, announcing his advancement, but at the same time
condemning him to secrecy.
The king's words were: "You are a captain, but he is a scoundrel who
repeats it!"
Thus Baron Kaphengst was captain, but no one suspected it; the captain
remained a simple lieutenant in the eyes of the world.
CHAPTER VI. THE LEGACY OF VON TRENCK, COLONEL OF THE PANDOURS.
Baron Weingarten, the new secretary of legation of the Austrian embassy
in Berlin, paced the ambassador's office in great displeasure. It was
the hour in which all who had affairs to arrange with the Austrian
ambassador, passports to vise, contracts to sign, were allowed entrance,
and it was the baron's duty to receive them. But no one came; no one
desired to make use of his ability or his mediation, and this displeased
the baron and put him out of humor. It was not the want of work and
activity that annoyed him; the baron would have welcomed the dolce far
niente had it not been unfortunately connected with his earnings; the
fees he received for passports, and the arrangement of other affairs,
formed part of his salary as secretary of legation, and as he possessed
no fortune, this was his only resource. This indigence alone led him to
resign his aristocratic independence and freedom of action. He had not
entered the state service from ambition, but for money, that he might
have the means of supporting his mother and unmarried sisters, and
enable himself to live according to his rank and old aristocratic
name. Baron Weingarten would have made any sacrifice, submitted to any
service, to obtain wealth. Poverty had demoralized him, pride had laid
a mildew on his heart and stifled all noble aspirations. As he read
a letter, just received from his mother, complaining of wants and
privations, telling of the attachment of a young officer to his sister,
and that poverty alone prevented their marriage, his heart was filled
with repining, and at this moment he was prepared to commit a crime, if,
by so doing, he could have obtained wealth.
In this despairing and sorrowful mood he had entered the office,
and awaited in vain for petitioners who would pay him richly for
his services. But the hours passed in undisturbed quiet, and Baron
Weingarten was in the act of leaving the office, as the servant
announced Baron von Waltz, and the court councillor, Zetto, from Vienna.
He advanced to meet the two gentlemen, with a smiling countenance, and
welcomed his Austrian countrymen heartily.
The two gentlemen seated themselves silently; Weingarten took a seat in
front of them.
A painful, embarrassed pause ensued. The majestic Baron von Waltz looked
silently at the ceiling, while the black, piercing eyes of the little
Councillor Zetto examined the countenance of Weingarten with a strangely
searching and penetrating expression.
"You are from Vienna?" said Weingarten at last, putting an end to this
painful silence.
"We are from Vienna," answered the baron, with a grave bow. "And have
travelled here post-haste to have an interview with you."
"With me?" asked the secretary of legation, astonished.
"With you alone," said the baron, gravely.
"We wish you to do the King of Prussia a great service," said Zetto,
solemnly.
Weingarten reddened, and said confusedly: "The King of Prussia! You
forget, gentlemen, that my services belong alone to the Empress Maria
Theresa."
"He defends himself before he is accused," said Zetto, aside. "It is
then true, as we have been told, he is playing a double game--serves
Austria and Prussia at the same time." Turning to Baron Weingarten, he
said: "That which we ask of you will be at the same time a service to
our gracious empress, for certainly it would not only distress, but
compromise her majesty, if an Austrian officer committed a murder in
Prussia."
"Murder!" cried the secretary of legation.
"Yes, an intentional murder," said Baron Waltz, emphatically--"the
murder of the King of Prussia. If you prevent this crime, you will
receive ten thousand guilders," said Zetto, examining Weingarten's
countenance closely. He remarked that the baron, who was but a moment
