ago pale from terror, now reddened, and that his eyes sparkled joyously.

"And what can I do to prevent this murder?" asked Weingarten, hastily.

"You can warn the king."

"But to warn successfully, I must have proofs."

"We are ready to give the most incontrovertible proofs."

"I must, before acting, be convinced of the veracity of your charges."

"I hope that my word of honor will convince you of their truth," said
Baron Waltz, pathetically.

Weingarten bowed, with an ambiguous smile, that did not escape Zetto.
He drew forth his pocket-book, and took from it a small, folded paper,
which he handed to Weingarten.

"If I strengthen my declaration with this paper, will you trust me?"

Weingarten looked with joyful astonishment at the paper; it was a check
for two thousand guilders. "My sister's dowry," thought Weingarten, with
joy. But the next moment came doubt and suspicion. What if they were
only trying him--only convincing themselves if he could be bought?
Perhaps he was suspected of supplying the Prussian Government from time
to time with Austrian news--of communicating to them the contents of
important dispatches!

The fire faded from his eye, and with a firm countenance he laid the
paper upon the table.

"Your are mistaken, gentlemen! That is no document, but a check."

"With which many documents could be purchased," said Zetto, smiling.
Placing the paper again in his pocket-book, he took out another and a
larger one. It was a check for three thousand guilders.

But Weingarten had regained his composure. He knew that men acting thus
must be spies or criminals; that they were testing him, or luring him on
to some unworthy act. In either case, he must be on his guard.

"I beg you to confirm your charge in the usual manner," said he, with
a cold, indifferent glance at the paper. "Murder is a dreadful
accusation--you cannot act too carefully. You say that an Austrian
officer intends to murder the King of Prussia. How do you know this?"

"From himself," said Baron Waltz. "He communicated his intentions to me,
and confided to me his entire plan."

"It appears," remarked Weingarten, mockingly, "that the officer had
reason to believe he might trust you with this terrible secret."

"You see, however, that he was mistaken," said the baron, smilingly. "I
demand of you to warn the King of Prussia of the danger that threatens
him."

"I shall be compelled to make this danger clear, give all particulars,
or the king will laugh at my story and consider it a fairy tale."

"You shall give him convincing proof. Say to him that the murder is
to be committed when his majesty attends the Austrian review at
Konigsberg."

"How will the officer cross the Prussian border?"

"He is supplied with an Austrian passport, and under the pretence of
inheriting a large property in Prussia, he has obtained leave of absence
for a month."

"There remains now but one question: why does the officer wish to murder
the king? What motive leads him to do so?"

"Revenge," said Baron von Waltz, solemnly--"an act of vengeance. This
Austrian officer who is resolved to murder the king of Prussia, is
Frederick von Trenck."

Weingarten was embarrassed, and his countenance bore an uneasy and
troubled expression. But as his eye fell upon the weighty paper that lay
before him, he smiled, and looked resolved.

"Now I have but one thing more to ask. Why, if your story is authentic,
and well calculated to startle even the brave king, have you thought it
necessary to remove my doubts with this document?"

Baron Waltz was silent, and looked inquiringly at Zetto.

"Why did I hand you this document?" said the councillor, with a sweet
smile. "Because gold remains gold, whether received from an Austrian
councillor or from a Prussian prince."

"Sir, do you dare to insult me?" cried the secretary of legation,
fiercely.

Zetto smiled. "No, I only wish to notify you that we are aware that
it is through you that Baron von Trenck receives money from a certain
aristocratic lady in Berlin. It is, therefore, most important that the
king should be warned by you of his intended murder--otherwise you might
be thought an accomplice."

