Weingarten appeared not to be in the least disconcerted by this
statement--he seemed not even to have heard it.
"Before I warn the king," he said, with calm composure, "I must be
convinced of the truth of the story myself, and I acknowledge to you
that I am not convinced, cannot understand your motives for seeking the
destruction of Baron von Trenck."
"Ah! you search into our motives--you mistrust us," cried Zetto,
hastily. "Well, we will prove to you that we trust you, by telling you
our secret. You know the story of the inheritance of Trenck?"
"He is the only heir of the pandour chieftain, Franz von Trenck."
"Correct. And do you know the history of this pandour chieftain Trenck?"
"I have heard a confused and uncertain statement, but nothing definite
or reliable."
"It is, however, a very interesting and instructive story, and shows how
far a man with a determined will and great energy can reach, when
his thoughts are directed to one end. Baron Trenck wished to be rich,
immensely rich--that was the aim of his life. Seduced by his love of
money, he became the captain of a band of robbers, then a murderer, a
church-robber; from that a brave soldier, and, at last, a holy penitent.
Robbing and plundering every-where, he succeeded in collecting millions.
The pandour chieftain Trenck soon became so rich, that he excited the
envy of the noblest and wealthiest men in the kingdom, so rich that he
was able to lend large sums of money to the powerful and influential
Baron Lowenwalde. You see, baron, it only needs a determined will to
become rich."
"Oh! the foolish man," said Weingarten, shrugging his shoulders.
"Lending money to a noble and powerful man, is making an irreconcilable
enemy."
"You speak like a prophet. It happened, as you say. Lowenwalde became
Trenck's enemy. He accused him of embezzling the imperial money, of
treachery and faithlessness--and Trenck was imprisoned."
"His millions obtained his release, did they not?"
"No. His riches reduced him to greater misery. His lands were
sequestered, and a body of commissioners were selected to attend to
them. Baron Waltz and myself belonged to this commission."
"Ah! I begin to understand," murmured Weingarten.
Baron Zetto continued, with a smile. "The commissioners made the
discovery that report had greatly exaggerated the riches of Trenck.
He had not many treasures, but many debts. In order to liquidate those
debts, we desired his creditors to announce themselves every day, and
promised them a daily ducat until the end of the process."
"I hope you two gentlemen were among his creditors," said Weingarten.
"Certainly, we were, and also Baron Marken."
"Therefore you have a threefold advantage from Trenck's imprisonment.
First, your salary as a member of the commission; secondly, as a
creditor--"
"And thirdly--you spoke of a threefold advantage?"
"And thirdly," said Weingarten, laughing, "in searching for the missing
treasures of Baron Trenck which had disappeared so unfortunately."
"Ah, sir, you speak like those who suspected us at court, and wished
to make the empress believe that we had enriched ourselves as
commissioners. Soon after this Trenck died, and Frederick von Trenck
hastened from St. Petersburg to receive his inheritance. How great
was his astonishment to find instead of the hoped-for millions a
few mortgaged lands, an income of a hundred thousand guilders, and
sixty-three creditors who claimed the property."
"He should have become one of the commissioners," remarked Weingarten,
mockingly. "Perhaps it would have then been easier for him to obtain his
possessions."
"He attempted it in another way, with the aid of money, bribery, and
persuasion. He has already succeeded in obtaining fifty-four of his
sixty-three processes, and will win the others in a few days."
"And then he will doubtless cause the commissioners to give in their
accounts, and close their books."
"Exactly. He has already commenced to do so. He ordered an investigation
to be made against the quartermaster, and the commander of the regiment
to which Franz von Trenck belonged. This man had accused Trenck of
having embezzled eight thousand of the imperial money, and Trenck
succeeded so far, that it was declared that it was not he, but his
accusers, who had committed the crime. The consequence was, that the
quartermaster was deposed, and it would have fared as badly with the
commander, had he not found powerful protection."
"And now the dangerous Frederick von Trenck will seize the property of
the commissioners."
"He would do so if we did not know how to prevent him. We must employ
every means to remove him, and, believe me, we are not the only men who
