would witness against him, and stamp him as a criminal! They were
already a crime in the king's eyes, for they were tender letters that
Trenck had dared to write from Vienna to the Princess Amelia. They had
never reached her!

And not those tender epistles of a tearful and unhappy love must bear
witness against the writer, and condemn him for the second time!

"It is his handwriting," said the king, as he laid the letters again
in the box. "I thank you, Baron Weingarten, you have saved me from a
disagreeable occurrence, for, if I will not even believe that Trenck
intended murder, he was at all events willing to create a scene, if only
to gratify his vanity. It appears that he has now played out his role
at Vienna, as well as in St. Petersburg and Berlin, and the world would
forget him if he did not attract its attention by some mad piece of
folly. How he intended to accomplish this I do not know, but certainly
not by a murder--no, I cannot believe that!"

"Your majesty is always noble and magnanimous, but it appears to me that
these words can have but one meaning. 'I shall go to Konigsberg,' writes
Baron Trenck, 'and there do in the presence of the king what no one has
done before me, and what no one will do after me.' Does not this make
his intention pretty clear?"

"Only for those who know his intentions or suspect them, for others they
could have any other signification, some romantic threat, nothing more.
Baron Trenck is a known adventurer, a species of Don Quixote, always
fighting against windmills, and believing that warriors and kings honor
him so far as to be his enemies. I punished Trenck when he was in my
service, for insubordination; now he is no longer in my service, and
I have forgotten him, but woe be unto him if he forces me to remember
him!"

"Your majesty will soon see if he is falsely accused. These reliable and
irreproachable men came especially to warn your majesty, through me. You
will discover if they have calumniated Trenck, by giving this testimony.
If he does not go to Dantzic, does not enter Prussia, they have sworn
falsely, and Trenck is innocent."

"He will not dare to cross the borders of my state, for he knows he will
be court-martialled as a deserter. But I am convinced that he is a bold
adventurer, he has boasted that he will defy me, that is certainly what
no one has done before him, and what no one will do after him, but it
will rest there, you may believe me."

Baron Weingarten bowed silently. The king continued, with an engaging
smile.

"However, monsieur, I owe you many thanks, and it would please me to
have an opportunity of rewarding you."

Until this moment, Weingarten had been standing with bowed head, he now
stood erect, and his eye dared to meet that of the king.

"Sire," he said, with the noble expression of offended innocence, "I
demand and wish no other reward than that you may profit by my warning.
If the fearful danger that threatens your majesty is averted through me,
that will be my all-sufficient recompense. I must decline any other."

The king smiled approvingly. "You speak emphatically, and it appears
that you really believe in this danger. Well, I thank you only as that
is your desire. I will respect your warning and guard myself from the
danger that you believe threatens me, but to do that, and at the same
time to convince ourselves of Trenck's evil intentions, we must observe
the most perfect silence in this whole affair, and you must promise me
to speak of it to no one."

"Sire, secrecy appeared to me so necessary, that I did not even
communicate it to Baron Puebla, but came to your majesty on my own
responsibility."

"You did well, for now Trenck will fall unwarned into the trap we set
for him. Be silent, therefore, upon the subject. If you should ever
have a favor to ask, come to me with this tabatiere in your hand. I will
remember this hour, and if it is in my power will grant you what you
wish."

He handed Weingarten his gold, diamond-studded tabatiere, and received
his thanks with approving smiles. After he had dismissed the secretary
of legation, and was alone, the smile faded from his face, and his
countenance was sad and disturbed.

"It has come to this," he said, as he paced his room, with his hands
folded behind his back. "This man, whom I once loved so warmly, wishes
to murder me. Ah! ye proud princes, who imagine yourselves gods on
earth, you are not even safe from a murderer's dagger, and you are as
vulnerable as the commonest beggar. Why does he wish my death? Were I a
fantastic, romantic hero, I might say he hoped to claim his sweetheart
over my dead body! But Amelia is no longer a person for whom a man would
risk his life; she is but a faint and sad resemblance of the past--her
rare beauty is tear-stained and turned to ashes, but her heart still
lives; it is young and warm, and belongs to Trenck! And shall I
dissipate this last illusion? Must she now learn that he to whom she
sacrificed so much is but a common murderer? No, I will spare her this
sorrow! I will not give Trenck the opportunity to fulfil his work; even
his intention shall remain doubtful. I shall not go to Konigsberg; and
if, in his presumptuous thirst for notoriety or for vengeance, he
should enter Prussia, he shall be cared for--he shall not escape his
punishment. Let him but try to cross my borders--he will find a snare
spread, a cage from which he cannot escape. Yes, so it shall be. But
