neither the world nor Trenck shall suspect why this is done. If my
brothers and envious persons hold him up in future as an example of my
hardness of heart, what do I care for their approval, or the praise
of short-sighted men! I do my duty, and am answerable only to God and
myself. Trenck intends to murder me--I must preserve myself for my
people. My mission is not yet accomplished; and if a poisonous insect
crosses my path, I must crush it."




CHAPTER VIII. THE UNWILLING BRIDEGROOM.


Prince Henry had again passed eight days in arrest--eight tedious days,
days of powerless anger and painful humiliation. This arrest had been,
by the king's express orders, so strict, that no one was allowed to
see the prince but Pollnitz, who belonged, as the king said, to the
inventory of the house of Hohenzollern, and, therefore, all doors were
open to him.

Pollnitz alone had, therefore, the pleasure of hearing the complaints,
and reproaches, and bitter accusations of the prince against his
brother. Pollnitz always had an attentive ear for these complaints; and
after listening to the prince with every appearance of real feeling and
warm sympathy, he would hasten to the king, and with drooping eyelids
and rejoicing heart repeat the bitter and hateful words of the
unsuspicious prince--words that were well calculated to increase the
king's displeasure. The prince still declared that he would not marry,
and the king insisted that he must submit to his will and commands.

Thus the eight days had passed, and Pollnitz came to-day with the joyful
news that his arrest was at an end, and he was now free.

"That means," said the prince, bitterly, "that I am free to wander
through the stupid streets of Potsdam; appear at his table; that my
clothes may be soiled by his unbearable four-legged friends, and my ears
deafened by the dull, pedantic conversation of his no less unbearable
two-legged friends."

"Your highness can save yourself from all these small annoyances," said
Pollnitz; "you have only to marry."

"Marry, bah! That means to give my poor sister-in-law, Elizabeth
Christine, a companion, that they may sing their sorrows to each other.
No, I have not the bravery of my kingly brother, to make a feeling,
human being unhappy in order to satisfy state politics. No, I possess
not the egotism to purchase my freedom with the life-long misery of
another."

"But, mon Dieu! my prince," said Pollnitz, in his cynical way, "you look
at it in too virtuous a manner. All women are not as good and pure as
poor Elizabeth Christine, and know how to compensate themselves in other
quarters for the indifference of their husbands. We are not speaking
here of a common marriage, but of the betrothal of a prince. You do not
marry your heart, but your hand. Truly such a marriage-ceremony is
a protecting talisman, that may be held up to other women as an iron
shield upon which, all their egotistical wishes, all their extravagant
demands must rebound. Moreover, a married man is entirely sans
consequence for all unmarried women, and if they should love such a one,
the happy mortal may be convinced that his love is really a caprice of
the heart, and not a selfish calculation or desire to marry."

The prince regarded the smiling courtier earnestly, almost angrily. "Do
you know," he said, "that what you say appears to me very immoral?"

"Immoral?" asked Pollnitz, astonished; "what is that? Your princely
highness knows that I received my education at the French court,
under the protection of the Regent of Orleans and the Princess of the
Palatinate, and there I never heard this word immoral. Perhaps your
highness will have the kindness to explain it to me."

"That would be preaching to deaf ears," said the prince, shrugging his
shoulders. "We will not quarrel about the meaning of a word. I only
wish to make you understand that I would not marry at my brother's bon
plaisir. I will not continue this race of miserable princes, that are
entirely useless, and consequently a burden to the state. Oh! if Heaven
would only give me the opportunity to distinguish myself before this
people, and give to this name that is go small, so unworthy, a splendor,
a color, a signification!"

"Your highness is ambitous," said Pollnitz, as the prince, now silent,
paced his room with deep emotion.

"Yes, I am ambitious--I thirst for action, renown, and activity. I
despise this monotonous, colorless existence, without end or aim. By
God! how happy I should be, if, instead of a prince, I could be a simple
private man, proprietor of a small landed estate, with a few hundred
subjects, that I should endeavor to make happy! But I am nothing but
a king's brother, have nothing but my empty title and the star upon my
coat. My income is so small, so pitiful, that it would scarcely suffice
to pay the few servants I have, if, at the same time, they were not paid
by the king as his spies."

"But all this will cease as soon as you speak the decisive word; as soon
as you declare yourself prepared to marry."

"And you dare to tell me this?" cried the prince, with flashing
eyes--"you, that know I love a lady who is unfortunately no princess; or
do you believe that a miserable prince has not the heart of a man--that
