he does not possess the ardent desire, the painful longing for the woman
he loves?"
"Oh, women do not deserve that we should love them so ardently; they are
all fickle and inconstant, believe me, my prince."
The prince cast a quick, questioning glance at the smiling countenance
of the courtier.
"Why do you say this to me?" he asked, anxiously.
"Because I am convinced of its truth, your highness; because I believe
no woman has the power to preserve her love when obstacles are placed in
the way, or that she can be faithful for the short space of eight days,
if her lover is absent."
The prince was startled, and looked terrified at Pollnitz.
"Eight days," he murmured; "it is eight days--no, it is twelve since I
saw Louise."
"Ah, twelve days--and your highness has the really heroic belief that
she still loves you?"
The prince sighed, and his brow clouded, but only for a few moments, and
his countenance was again bright and his eyes sparkled.
"Yes, I have this belief; and why should I not have it, as my own heart
had stood the trial? I have not seen her for twelve days, have not heard
of her, and still my love is as great and as ardent as ever. Yes, I
believe that at the thought of her my heart beats more quickly, more
longingly than if I had her in my arms."
"The reason of this," said Pollnitz, almost sympathetically, "is that it
is your first love."
Prince Henry looked at him angrily.
"You are wrong and most unjust to this beautiful woman, who remained
good and pure in the midst of the corrupting and terrible circumstances
in which destiny placed her. She preserved a chaste heart, an unspotted
soul. Her misfortunes only refined her, and therefore I love her,
and believe that God has placed me in her way that, after all her
sufferings, I might make her happy. Oh, precisely because of her
sorrows, the shameful slanders with which she is pursued, and all for
which she is reproached, I love her."
"Well, my prince," sighed Pollnitz, with a tragical expression, "I never
saw a bolder hero and a more pious Christian than your highness."
"What do you mean by that, Pollnitz?"
"That an enormous amount of bravery is necessary, prince, to believe
Madame von Kleist chaste and innocent, and that only a pious Christian
can count himself so entirely among those of whom Christ says, 'Blessed
are they that have not seen and yet have believed.' May a good fairy
long preserve you your bravery and your Christianity! But surely your
highness must have important and convincing proofs to believe in the
innocence and faithfulness of this woman. I confess that any other man
would have been discouraged in his godlike belief by facts. It is a fact
that for twelve days Madame von Kleist has sent you no message through
me; it is a fact that she was not at the masked ball; that as often as
I have been to her in these last days, to deliver letters for your
highness, and to obtain hers in return, she has never received me,
always excused herself; and, therefore, I could not receive her letters,
nor deliver those of your highness."
"And were you not in Berlin early this morning! Did you not go to her as
I ordered you, and tell her she might expect me this evening?"
"I went to her house, but in vain; she was with the queen-mother, and
I was told that she would not return until late in the evening, I
therefore could not deliver the message, your highness."
The prince stamped his foot impatiently, and walked hastily to and fro;
his brow was clouded, his lips trembled with inward emotion. The sharp
eye of the baron followed with an attentive, pitiless glance every
movement of his face, noted every sigh that came from his anxious heart,
that he might judge whether the seeds of mistrust that he had sown in
the breast of the prince would grow. But Prince Henry was still young,
brave, and hopeful; it was his first love they wished to poison, but
his young, healthy nature withstood the venom, and vanquished its evil
effects. His countenance resumed its quiet, earnest expression, and the
cloud disappeared from his brow.
"Do you know," he said, standing before Pollnitz, and looking smilingly
into his cunning face--"do you know that you do not descend, as the rest
of mankind, from Adam and Eve, but in a direct line from the celebrated
serpent? And truly you do honor to your ancestor! No paradise is holy
to you, and to do evil gives you pleasure. But you shall not disturb my
paradise; and as much of the old Adam as is still in me, I will not be
foolish enough to eat of the bitter fruit that you offer me. No, you
shall not succeed in making me jealous and distrustful; you shall not
destroy my faith: and see you, those that believe are still in paradise,
notwithstanding your ancestor, the serpent."
"My prince," said Pollnitz, shrugging his shoulders, "your highness
looks upon me as a kind of Messiah--at least it pleases you to give me
a mother and no father. But oh, my prince! if you are right about my
descent, philosophers are certainly wrong, for they maintain that the
