serpent of paradise left gold as a fearful inheritance to mankind. I
shall accuse my great-grandmother the serpent of disinheriting me and
condemning me to live upon the generosity of my friends and patrons."
He looked at the prince, with a sly, covetous glance, but he had not
understood him; engaged in deep thought, he had stepped to the window,
and was gazing up at the heavens, where the clouds were chasing each
other.
"She will be the entire day with my mother, and I shall not see her,"
he murmured. Then, turning hastily to Pollnitz, he asked, "How is the
queen-mother? Did I not hear that she was suffering?"
"Certainly, your highness, a severe attack of gout confines her to her
chair, and holds her prisoner."
"Poor mother! it is long since I saw you."
"It is true, the queen complained of it the last time I spoke with her,"
said Pollnitz, with a perfectly serious face, but with inward rejoicing.
Another pause ensued. The prince appeared to reflect, and to struggle
with his own thoughts and wishes. Pollnitz stood behind him, and noted
every motion, every sigh that he uttered, with his malicious smiles.
"I believe," said the prince, with still averted face, perhaps to
prevent Pollnitz from seeing his blushes--"I believe it would be proper
for me to inquire to-day personally after my mother's health; it is not
only my duty to do so, but the desire of my heart."
"Her majesty will be pleased to see her beloved son again, and this
pleasure will hasten her recovery."
The prince turned hastily and glanced sharply at Pollnitz, as if he
wished to read his inmost thoughts. But the countenance of the courtier
was earnest and respectful.
"If that is your opinion," said the prince, with a happy smile, "my
duty as a son demands that I should hasten to the queen, and I will go
immediately to Berlin. But as I am going to my mother, and solely on her
account, I will do it in the proper form. Have, therefore, the
kindness to obtain my leave of the king--bring me my brother's answer
immediately, I only await it to depart."
"And I hasten to bring it to your highness," said Pollnitz, withdrawing.
Prince Henry looked thoughtfully after him.
"I shall see her," he murmured; "I shall speak with her, and shall learn
why she withdrew herself so long from me. Oh, I know she will be able
to justify herself, and these slanders and evil reports will flee before
her glance as clouds before the rays of the sun."
In the mean while, Pollnitz hastened to Sans Souci, where he was
immediately received by the king.
"Your majesty," he said, joyfully, "the young lion has fallen into the
net that we set for him."
"He goes then to Berlin, to the queen-mother?" asked the king, quickly.
"He begs your majesty's permission to take this little trip."
"He really charged you with this commission?"
"Yes, sire: it appears that his obstinacy is beginning to relent, and
that he thinks of submitting."
The king was silent, and walked thoughtfully to and fro, with clouded
brow, then remained standing before Pollnitz, and looked sharply and
piercingly at him.
"You rejoice," he said, coldly, "but you only think of your own
advantage. You are indifferent to the sorrow we are preparing for my
brother. You only think that your debts will be paid. Yes, I will pay
them, but I shall never forget that you have betrayed my brother's
confidence."
"I only acted according to your majesty's commands," said Pollnitz,
confounded. "Certainly, but if you had resisted my commands, I would
have esteemed and prized you the more. Now, I shall pay your debts, but
I shall despise you. No one has reasons for thanking you."
"Sire, I desire no other thanks. Had I been paid with money for my
services, instead of fine speeches, I would have been as rich as
Croesus."
"And a beggar in virtue," said the king, smiling. "But go, I was wrong
to reproach you. I shall now go to Berlin, and when my brother arrives
he shall find me there. Go now, my grand chamberlain, and take the
prince my permission for a three days' absence."
CHAPTER IX. THE FIRST DISAPPOINTMENT.
A few hours later the equipage of Prince Henry arrived in the court-yard
of Monbijou, and the prince demanded of his mother, the widowed queen,
