permission to pay her his respects.
Sophia Dorothea was suffering greatly. The gout, that slow but fatal
disease, which does not kill at once, but limb by limb, had already
paralyzed the feet of the poor queen, and confined her to her chair.
To-day her sufferings were greater than usual, and she was not able to
leave her bed. Therefore, she could not receive the prince as a queen,
but only as a mother, without ceremony or etiquette. That the meeting
might be entirely without constraint, the maids of honor left the
queen's room, and as the prince entered, he saw the ladies disappearing
by another door; the last one had just made her farewell bow, and was
kissing respectfully the queen's hand.
This was Louise von Kleist, for whose sake the prince had come, and for
whom his heart throbbed painfully. He could have cried aloud for joy
as he saw her in her bewildering loveliness, her luxuriant beauty. He
longed to seize her hands and cover them with kisses--to tell her how
much he had suffered, how much he was still suffering for her sake.
But Louise appeared not to have seen him, not to have noticed his
entrance. She had only eyes and ears for the queen, who was just
dismissing her with winning words, telling her to remain in the castle
and return when she desired to see her.
"I shall remain and await your majesty's commands," said Louise,
withdrawing hastily.
The queen now greeted the prince as if she had just observed him, and
invited him to be seated on the fauteuil near her couch. The prince
obeyed, but he was absent-minded and restless, and the more the queen
endeavored to engage him in harmless and unconstrained conversation, the
more monosyllabic and preoccupied he became. The poor prince remembered
only that his beloved was so near, that only a door separated them, and
prevented him from gazing on her beauty.
Yes, Louise was really in the next room, in the cabinet of the queen,
sorrowful and exhausted; she had fallen upon the little sofa near the
door, the smile had left her lips, and her brilliant, bewitching eyes
were filled with tears. Louise wept; she wept for her last youthful
dream, her last hope of happiness and virtue, for her sad, shadowed
future and wounded pride; for to-day she had to resign forever the
proud hopes, the brilliant future for which she had striven with so much
energy.
But it was vain to struggle against this hard necessity. The king had
given her his orders and was there to see them carried out. He sat
behind that portiere that led into the grand saloon; he had just left
Louise, and, before going, had said to her, in a stern, commanding tone:
"You will fulfil my commands accurately. You know that Fritz Wendel
still lives, and that I shall be inexorable if you do not act as you
have promised."
Louise submitted respectfully to the king's commands; she accepted her
fate, but she wept bitterly, and when she felt that the king's eyes
were no longer upon her, her tears flowed unceasingly. Perhaps Frederick
still saw her, or suspected her weakness, for the portiere opened
slightly, and his noble, but stern countenance appeared.
"Madame," he said, "if the prince sees you with tearful eyes, he will
not believe in your happiness."
Louise smiled painfully. "Ah! sire, he will believe I am weeping for
joy. I have often heard of joyful tears."
The king did not reply; he felt for her agony, and closed the partiere.
"I will cry no more," she said; "I have accepted my destiny, and will
fulfil it bravely for the sake of my daughter. It concerns Camilla's
happiness more than my own. I will deserve the respect of my unfortunate
child."
In saying this, a smile like a sunbeam illuminated her countenance.
But now she started up, and laid her hand in terror upon her heart.
She heard steps approaching. The door moved, and in a moment the king
appeared and motioned to her.
"Courage, courage!" murmured Louise, and with instinctive fear she flew
away from the door and placed herself in the niche of the last window.
To reach her, the prince must cross the saloon; that would give her a
few moments to recover. The door opened and Prince Henry entered; his
glance flew quickly over the saloon, and found the one he sought.
Louise could have shrieked with agony when she saw the tender smile with
which he greeted her. Never had he appeared so handsome, so noble as at
this moment, when she must resign him forever.
But there was no time to think of this, no time for complaints or
regrets. He was there, he stood before her, offered both his hands, and
greeted her with the tenderest words of love.
Louise had a stern part to play, and she dared not listen to her heart's
pleadings.
"Ah, my prince," she said, with a laugh that sounded to herself like
the wail of a lost soul--"ah, my prince, take care! we women are very
credulous, and I might take your jesting words for truth."
"I advise you to do so," said the prince, happy and unconcerned. "Yes,
