for a moment the part she was condemned to play, and leaned, pale and
sad, against the window.

Perhaps he heard her sorrowful sighs--perhaps he saw her tears as they
rolled one by one from her eyes, and fell like pearls upon her small
white hands.

Anger disappeared from his face, his brow cleared, and as he approached
Louise his eyes sparkled with another and milder fire.

"Louise," he said, softly, and his voice, which had before raged like
a stormy wind, was now mild and tender--"Louise, I have divined your
purpose--I know all now. At first, I did not understand your words; in
my folly and jealousy I misconceived your meaning; you only wished to
try me, to see if my love was armed and strong, if it was as bold and
faithful as I have sworn it to be. Well, I stood the test badly,
was weak and faint-hearted; but forgive me--forgive me, Louise, and
strengthen my heart by confidence and faith in me."

He tried to take her hand, but she withdrew it.

"Must I repeat to your highness what I have said before? I do not
understand you. What do you mean?"

"Ah," said the prince, "you are again my naughty, sportive Louise. Well,
then, I will explain. Did you not say that you now love so truly, that
you have promised to become the wife of the man you love?"

"Yes, I said that, your highness."

"And I," said the prince, seizing both her hands and gazing at her
ardently--"I was so short-sighted, so ungrateful, as not to understand
you. The many sorrows and vexations I suffer away from you have dimmed
my eyes and prevented me from seeing what is written with golden letters
upon your smiling lips and beaming eyes. Ah, Louise, I thank you for
your precious words, at last you are captured, at last you have resolved
to become the wife of him who adores you. I thank you, Louise, I thank
you, and I swear that no earthly pomp or power could make me as proud
and happy as this assurance of your love."

Louise gazed into his beautiful, smiling face with terror.

"Ah, my prince, my words have not the meaning you imagine. I spoke the
simple truth. My heart has made its choice--since yesterday, I am the
betrothed wife of Captain du Trouffle."

"That is not true," cried the prince, casting her hands violently from
him. "You are very cruel today; you torture me with your fearful jests."

"No, your highness, I speak the truth. I am the betrothed of Captain du
Trouffle."

"Since yesterday you are the betrothed of Captain du Trouffle!" repeated
the prince, staring at her wildly. "And you say you love him, Louise?"

"Yes, your highness, I love him," said Louise, with a faint smile.

"It is impossible," cried the prince; "it is not true."

"And why should I deceive your highness?"

"Why?--ah, I understand all. Oh, Louise, my poor darling, how
short-sighted I have been! Why did I not immediately suspect my
brother?--he has spies to watch all my movements; they have at last
discovered my love for you. Pollnitz, who would do any thing for gold,
has betrayed us to the king, who condemns me to marry according to my
rank, and, to carry out his purpose surely, he now forces you to marry.
Oh, Louise, say that this is so; acknowledge that the power of the king,
and not your own heart, forced you to this engagement. It is impossible,
it cannot be that you have forgotten the vows that we exchanged scarcely
two weeks ago. It cannot be that you look upon the heart that loved
you so deeply, so purely, as an idle plaything, to be thrown away so
lightly! No, no, Louise, I have seen often in your beaming eyes, your
eloquent smiles, I have felt in your soft and tender tones, that you
loved me fondly; and now in your pale, sad face I see that you love
me still, and that it is the king who wishes to separate us. My poor,
lovely child, you have been intimidated; you think that my brother, who
reigns supreme over millions, will yield to no obstacle, that it is vain
to resist him. But you are mistaken, Louise; you have forgotten that
I am Frederick's brother, that the proud, unconquerable blood of the
Hohenzollerns flows also in my veins. Let my brother try to force me
to his purpose; I shall be no weak tool in his hands. You had not firm
confidence in your lover, Louise; you did not know that I would resign
cheerfully rank and all family ties for your sake; you did not know that
I had sworn to marry only the woman I love. This I must do to satisfy
my heart and my honor, and also to show the king that Prince Henry is
a free man. Now tell me, Louise, if I have not divined all. Is not
this the king's cruel work? Ah, you do not answer, you are silent. I
understand--the king has made you swear not to betray him. Now look at
me, Louise; make me a sign with your hand, tell me with your eyes, and
I will comprehend you--I will take you in my arms and carry you to
the altar. My God! Louise do you not see that I am waiting for this
sign?--that you are torturing me?"

Louise raised her head, her heart was melting within her; she forgot her
terror, and was ready to resist God, the king, and the whole world, to
grasp the noble and unselfish love that the prince offered her. But her
glance fell involuntarily upon the curtain, behind which the king stood,
and it seemed to her as if she saw the angry, burning eyes of Frederick
threatening to destroy her. She remembered her daughter, Fritz Wendel,
