
Painful and bitter were the days for Henry that followed his first
disappointment. He passed them in rigid seclusion, in his lonely
chambers; he would see no one, no cheerful word or gay laughter was
allowed in his presence. The servants looked at him sorrowfully;
and when the prince appeared at the parade the day after his painful
interview with Louise, even the king found him so pale and suffering, he
begged him to take a week's leave and strengthen and improve his health.

The prince smiled painfully at the king's proposition, but he accepted
his leave of absence, and withdrew to the solitude of his rooms. His
heart was wounded unto death, his soul was agonized. Youth soon laid its
healing balm upon his wounds and closed them; anger and contempt dried
his tears, and soothed the anguish of his heart.

The king was right when he said of his brother, "He is a man, and will
recover." He did recover, and these days of suffering made a man of him;
his brow, once so clear and youthful, had received its first mark of
sorrow; the lines of his face were harsh and stern, his features sharper
and more decided. He had experienced his first disappointment--it had
nerved and strengthened him.

Before his eight days' leave of absence had expired, his door was again
open to his circle of friends and confidants.

His first invited guest was the grand chamberlain, Baron Pollnitz. The
prince welcomed him with a bright and cheerful face.

"Do you know why I wished to see you?" he asked. "You must tell me the
chronique scandaleuse of our most honorable and virtuous city. Commence
immediately. What is the on dit of the day?"

"Ah," sighed Pollnitz, "life is now stupid, dull, and monotonous. As you
say, every one has become most honorable and virtuous. No scandals or
piquant adventures occur; baptisms, marriages, and burials are the only
events. This is really a miserable existence; for as I do not wish to be
baptized or to marry, and as I am not yet ready for burial, I really do
not know why I exist."

"But those that are married and baptized, doubtless know why they
exist," said the prince, smiling. "Tell me something of this happy
class. Whose, for example, is the latest marriage?"

"The latest marriage?" said Pollnitz, hesitating--"before answering,
I must allow myself to ask after the condition of your heart. Does it
still suffer?"

"No," cried the prince, "it does not suffer; it received a heavy shower
of cold water, and was cured instantly."

"I rejoice to hear it, your highness, and congratulate you on your
recovery, for truly there is no more painful disease than a suffering
heart."

"I told you that I had recovered fully; tell me, therefore, your news
without hesitation. You spoke of a marriage. Who were the happy lovers?"

"Your highness, Madame von Kleist has married," murmured Pollnitz.

The prince received this blow without betraying the slightest emotion.

"When did the marriage take place?" he asked, with perfect composure.

"Yesterday; and I assure your highness that I never saw a happier or
more brilliant bride. Love has transformed her into a blushing, timid
maiden."

Prince Henry pressed his hand upon his heart with a quick, unconscious
movement.

"I can well imagine that she was beautiful," said he, controlling his
voice with a great effort. "Madame von Kleist is happy, and happiness
always beautifies. And the bridegroom, M. du Trouffle, was he also
handsome and happy?"

"Your highness knows the name of the bride-groom," said Pollnitz,
appearing astonished.

"Yes, Madame von Kleist told me herself when she announced her
approaching marriage. But I am not acquainted with Du Trouffle--is he
handsome?"

"Handsome and amiable, your highness, and besides, a very good officer.
The king gave him, as a wedding present, a major's commission."

"Then the beautiful Louise is now Mrs Major du Trouffle," said the
prince, with a troubled smile. "Were you present at the wedding?"

"Yes, in the name of the king."

"Did she speak the decisive Yes, the vow of faith and obedience, with
earnestness and confidence? Did she not blush, or droop her eyelids in
doing so?"

"Oh, no; she smiled as if entranced, and raised her eyes to heaven, as
if praying for God's blessing upon her vows."

"One thing more," said the prince, fixing his large, gray eyes with a
searching expression upon Pollnitz--"what is said of me? Am I regarded
as a rejected lover, or as a faithless one; for doubtless all Berlin
