knows of my love for this lady, you having been our confidant."
"Oh, my prince, that is a hard insinuation," said Pollnitz, sadly.
"Your highness cannot really believe that--"
"No protestations, I pray you," interrupted the prince, "I believe I
know you thoroughly, but I am not angry with you nor do I reproach
you: you are a courtier, and one of the best and rarest type; you have
intellect and knowledge, much experience and savoir vivre; I could
desire no better company than yourself; but for one moment cast aside
your character as a courtier, and tell me the truth: what does the world
say of this marriage in regard to me?"
"Your highness desires me to tell you the truth?"
"Yes, I do."
"Now the important moment has come," thought Pollnitz. "Now, if I am
adroit, I believe I can obtain the payment of my debts."
"Well, then, your highness," said Pollnitz, in answer to the prince, "I
will tell you the truth, even should I incur your displeasure. I fear,
my prince, you are regarded as a rejected lover, and Madame du Trouffle
has succeeded in throwing a holy lustre around her beautiful brow. It is
said that she refused your dishonorable proposals, and preferred being
the virtuous wife of a major, to becoming the mistress of a prince."
"Go on," said the prince, hastily, as Pollnitz ceased, and looked
searchingly at him. "What do they say of me?"
"That you are in despair, and that you have retired to your chambers to
weep and mourn over your lost love."
"Ah, they say that, do they?" cried the prince, with flashing eyes and
darkened brow; "well, I will show this credulous world that they are
mistaken. Is the king in Sans-Souci?"
"Yes, your highness."
"Well, go to him, and announce my visit; I will follow you on foot."
"We have won the day," cried Pollnitz, as he approached the king; "the
prince desires to make you a visit. He will be here immediately."
"Do you know what my brother wishes of me?" asked the king.
"I do not know, but I suspect, sire. I think he wishes to marry, in
order to pique his faithless sweetheart."
"Go and receive the prince, and conduct him to me; then remain in the
antechamber, and await until I call."
When Pollnitz left, the king seized his flute hastily aim began to play
a soft, melting adagio. He was still playing, when the door opened, and
the prince was announced. Henry stood in the doorway, and made the king
a ceremonious bow. The king continued to play. The low, pleading notes
of the flute floated softly through the room; they touched the heart of
the prince, and quieted its wild, stormy beating.
Was that the king's intention, or did he intend to harmonize his own
spirit before speaking to his brother? Perhaps both, for Frederick's
glance softened, and his face assumed a kind and mild expression.
When the adagio was finished, the king laid his flute aside and
approached the prince.
"Forgive me, brother," he said, offering his hand--"forgive me for
keeping you waiting, I always like to conclude what I commence. Now, I
am entirely at your service, and as I am unfortunately not accustomed to
receive such friendly visits from you, I must ask you what brings you to
me, and how I can serve you?"
The fierce, violent nature of the prince slumbered but lightly. The
king's words aroused it, and made his pulse and heart beat stormily.
"How you can serve me, my brother?" he said, hastily. "I will tell you,
and truthfully, sire."
The king raised his head, and glanced angrily at the burning face of the
prince.
"I am not accustomed to have my words repeated, and all find that out
here to their cost," he said, sternly.
"Have the goodness, then, to tell me why you have pursued me so long
and unrelentingly? What have I done to deserve your displeasure and such
bitter humiliations?"
"Rather ask me what you have done to deserve my love and confidence,"
said the king, sternly. "I refer you to your own heart for an answer."
"Ah, your majesty promised to answer my questions, and now you evade
them, but I will reply frankly. I have done nothing to deserve your
love, but also nothing to make me unworthy of it. Why are you, who are
so good and kind to all others, so stern and harsh with me?"
"I will tell you the truth," said the king, earnestly. "You have
deserved my displeasure, you have desired to be a free man, to cast
aside the yoke that Providence placed upon you, you had the grand
