presumption to dare to be the master of your own actions."

"And does your majesty desire and expect me to resign this most natural
of human rights?" said the prince, angrily.

"Yes, I desire and expect it. I can truthfully say that I have given my
brothers a good example in this particular."

"But you did not do this willingly. You were cruelly forced to
submission, and you now wish to drive us to an extremity you have,
doubtlessly, long since forgotten. Now, you suffered and struggled
before declaring yourself conquered."

"No," said the king, softly, "I have not forgotten. I still feel the
wound in my soul, and at times it burns."

"And yet, my brother?"

"And yet I will have no pity with you. I say to you, as my father said
to me: 'You must submit; you are a prince, and I am your king!' I have
long since acknowledged that my father was right in his conduct to me.
I was not only a disobedient son, but a rebellious subject. I richly
deserved to mount the scaffold with Katte."

"Ah, my brother, there was a time when you wept for this faithful and
unfortunate friend," cried the prince, reproachfully.

"The sons of kings have not the right to choose their own path, destiny
has marked it out for them; they must follow it without wavering. I
neither placed the crown upon my head, nor the yoke upon your neck. We
must bear them patiently, as God and Providence have ordained, and wear
them with grace and dignity. You, my brother, have acted like a wild
horse of the desert--I have drawn the reins tight, that is all!"

"You have caught, bound, and tamed me," said the prince, with a faint
smile; "only I feel that the bit still pains, and that my limbs still
tremble. But I am ready to submit, and I came to tell you so. You desire
me to marry, I consent; but I hold you responsible for the happiness of
this marriage. At God's throne, I will call you to justify yourself, and
there we will speak as equals, as man to man. What right had you to rob
me of my most holy and beautiful possession? What right have you to lay
a heavy chain on heart and hand, that love will not help me to bear? I
hold you responsible for my miserable life, my shattered hopes. Will you
accept these conditions? Do you still wish me to marry?"

"I accept the conditions," said the king, solemnly. "I desire you to
marry."

"I presume your majesty has chosen a bride for me?"

"You are right, mon cher frere. I have selected the Princess Wilhelmina,
daughter of Prince Max, of Hesse-Cassel. She not only brings you a
fortune, but youth, beauty, and amiability."

"I thank you, sire," said the prince, coldly and formally. "I would
marry her if she were ugly, old, and unamiable. But is it allowed me to
add one condition?"

"Speak, my brother, I am listening."

The prince did not answer immediately; he breathed quickly and heavily,
and a glowing red suffused his pale, trembling face.

"Speak, my brother. Name your conditions," said the king.

"Well, then, so be it. My first condition is that I may be allowed to
have a brilliant wedding. I wish to invite not only the entire court,
but a goodly number of Berliners; I desire all Berlin to take part in
my happiness, and to convince every one, by my gay demeanor and my
entertainment, that I joyfully accept my bride, the princess."

The king's eyes rested sorrowfully upon his brother's countenance. He
fully understood the emotions of his heart, and knew that his brother
wished to wound and humiliate his faithless sweetheart by his marriage;
that Henry only submitted to his wishes because his proud heart
rebelled at the thought of being pitied as a rejected lover. But he was
considerate, and would not let it appear that he understood him.

"I agree to this first proposition," said the king, after a pause,
"and I hope you will allow me to be present at this beautiful fete,
and convince Berlin that we are in hearty unison. Have you no other
conditions?"

"Yes, one more."

"What is it?"

"That my marriage shall take place, at the latest, in a month."

"You will thus fulfil my particular and personal wish," said the king,
smiling. "I am anxious to have this marriage over, for, after the
gayeties, I wish to leave Berlin. All the arrangements and contracts
are completed, and I think now there is no obstacle in the way of the
marriage. Have you another wish, my brother?"

"No, sire."

"Then allow me to beg you to grant me a favor. I wish to leave a kind
remembrance of this eventful hour in your heart, and I therefore
give you a small memento of the same. Will you accept my castle of
