Rheinsberg, with all its surroundings, as a present from me? Will you
grant me this pleasure, my brother?"
The king offered his hand, with a loving smile, to Henry, and received
with apparent pleasure his ardent thanks.
"I chose Rheinsberg," he said, kindly, "not because it is my favorite
palace, and I have passed many pleasant and happy days there, but
because none of my other palaces are so appropriate for a prince who is
discontented with his king. I have made that experience myself, and I
give you Rheinsberg, as my father gave it to me. Go to Rheinsberg when
you are angry with me and the world; there you can pass the first months
of your marriage, and God grant it may be a happy one!"
The prince answered him with a cold smile, and begged leave to withdraw,
that he might make the necessary preparations for his wedding. "We
will both make our preparations," said the king, as he bade the prince
farewell--"you with your major-domo, and I with Baron Pollnitz, whom I
shall send as ambassador to Cassel."
CHAPTER XI. THE TRAVELLING MUSICIANS.
The feasts, illuminations, and balls given in honor of the newly-married
couple, Henry and his wife, the Princess Wilhelmina, were at an end. The
prince and his followers had withdrawn to Rheinsberg, and many were
the rumors in Berlin of the brilliant feasts with which he welcomed his
beautiful bride. She was truly lovely, and the good Berliners, who
had received her with such hearty greetings when she appeared with
the prince on the balcony, or showed herself to the people in an open
carriage, declared there could be no happier couple than the prince and
his wife; they declared that the large, dark eyes of the princess rested
upon the prince with inexpressible tenderness, and that the prince
always returned her glance with a joyous smile. It was therefore decided
that the prince was a happy husband, and the blessings of the Berliners
followed the charming princess to Rheinsberg, where the young couple
were to pass their honeymoon.
While the prince was giving splendid fetes, and seeking distraction, and
hoping to forget his private griefs, or perhaps wishing to deceive the
world as to his real feelings, the king left Sans-Souci, to commence
one of his customary military inspection trips. But he did not go to
Konigsberg, as was supposed; and if Trenck really had the intention of
murdering him during his sojourn there, it was rendered impossible
by the change in the king's plans. Frederick made a tour in his Rhine
provinces. At Cleves he dismissed his followers, and they returned to
Berlin.
The king declared he needed rest, and wished to pass a few days in
undisturbed quiet at the castle of Moyland.
No one accompanied him but Colonel Balby, his intimate friend, and his
cabinet-hussar, Deesen. The king was in an uncommonly good humor, and
his eyes sparkled with delight. After a short rest in his chamber, he
desired to see Colonel Balby.
To his great astonishment, the colonel found him searching through a
trunk, which contained a few articles of clothing little calculated to
arrest the attention of a king.
"Balby," said the king, solemnly, but with a roguish sparkle of the eye,
"I wish to present you this plain brown suit. I owe you a reward for
your hearty friendship and your faithful services. This is a princely
gift. Take it as a mark of my grateful regard. That you may be
convinced, Balby, that I have long been occupied in preparing this
surprise for you, I inform you that these rich articles were made
secretly for you in Berlin, by your tailor; I packed them myself, and
brought them here for you. Accept them, then, my friend, and wear them
in memory of Frederick."
With a solemn bow, the king offered Balby the clothes.
The colonel received this strange present with an astonished and
somewhat confused countenance.
The king laughed merrily. "What," he said, pathetically, "are you not
contented with the favor I have shown you?"
Balby knew by the comic manner of the king that the sombre suit hid a
secret, and he thought it wise to allow the king to take his own time
for explanation.
"Sire," he said, emphatically, "content is not the word to express my
rapture. I am enthusiastic, speechless at this unheard-of favor. I am
filled with profound gratitude to your majesty for having in vented a
new costume for me, whose lovely color will make me appear like a large
coffee-bean, and make all the coffee sisters adore me."
The king was highly amused. "This dress certainly has the power of
enchantment. When Colonel Balby puts on these clothes he will be
invisible, but he shall not undergo this transformation alone. See,
here is another suit, exactly like yours, and this is mine. When I array
myself in it, I am no longer the king of Prussia, but a free, happy
man."
"Ah, you are speaking of a disguise," cried the colonel.
