"Yes, we will amuse ourselves by playing the role of common men for
a while, and wander about unnoticed and undisturbed. Are you agreed,
Balby, or do you love your colonel's uniform better than your freedom?"
"Am I agreed, sire?" cried the colonel; "I am delighted with this genial
thought."
"Then take your dress, friend, and put it on. But stay. Did you bring
your violin with you, as I told you?"
"Yes, sire."
"Well, then, when you are dressed, put your violin in a case, and with
the case under your arm, and a little money in your pocket, go to the
pavilion at the farthest end of the garden; there I will meet you. Now
hasten, friend, we have no time to lose."
According to the king's orders, Colonel Balby dressed and went to the
pavilion. He did not find the king, but two strange men there. One of
them had on a brown coat, the color of his own, ornamented with large
buttons of mother-of-pearl; black pantaloons, and shoes with large
buckles, set with dull white stones; the lace on his sleeves and vest
was very coarse. He wore a three-cornered hat, without ornament; from
under the hat fell long, brown, unpowdered hair.
Behind this stranger there stood another, in plain, simple clothes;
under one arm he carried a small bag, and under the other a case that
contained either a yard-stick or a flute. He returned the colonel's
salutation with a grimace and a profound bow. A short pause ensued, then
the supposed strangers laughed heartily and exclaimed:
"Do you not know us, Balby?"
Their voices started the colonel, and he stepped back.
"Sire, it is yourself."
"Yes, it is I, Frederick--not the king. Yes, I am Frederick, and this
capital servant is my good Deesen, who has sworn solemnly not to betray
our incognito, and to give no one reason to suspect his high dignity
as royal cabinet-hussar. For love of us he will, for a few days, be the
servant of two simple, untitled musicians, who are travelling around the
world, seeking their fortunes, but who, unfortunately, have no letters
of recommendation."
"But who will recommend themselves by their talents and
accomplishments."
The king laughed aloud. "Balby, you forget that you are a poor musician,
chatting with your comrade. Truly your courtly bow suits your dress as
little as a lace veil would a beggar's attire; you must lay your fine
manners aside for a short time, for, with them, you would appear to
the village beauties we may meet like a monkey, and they would laugh at
instead of kissing you."
"So we are to meet country beauties," said Colonel Balby, no longer able
to suppress his curiosity. "Tell me, sire, where are we going, and what
are we going to do? I shall die of curiosity."
"Make an effort to die," said the king, gayly; "you will find it is not
so easy to do as you imagine. But I will torture you no longer. You ask
what we are going to do. Well, we are going to amuse ourselves and seek
adventures. You ask where we are going. Ask that question of the sparrow
that sits on the house-top--ask where it is going, and what is the aim
of its journey. It will reply, the next bush, the nearest tree, the
topmost bough of a weeping willow, which stands on a lonely grave; the
mast of a ship, sailing on the wide sea; or the branch of a noble beech,
waving before the window of a beautiful maiden. I am as incapable of
telling you the exact aim and end of our journey, friend, as that little
bird would be. We are as free as the birds of the air. Come! come! let
us fly, for see, the little sparrow has flown--let us follow it."
And with a beaming smile illuminating his countenance, like a ray of the
morning sun, the king took the arm of his friend, and followed by his
servant and cabinet-hussar, Deesen, left the pavilion.
As they stood at the little gate of the garden, the king said to Deesen,
"You must be for us the angel with the flaming sword, and open the gates
of paradise, but not to cast us out."
Deesen opened the gate, and our adventurers entered "the wide, wide
world."
"Let us stand here a few moments," said the king, as his glance rested
upon the green fields spread far and wide around him. "How great and
beautiful the world appears to-day! Observe Nature's grand silence, yet
the air is full of a thousand voices, and the white clouds wandering
dreamily in the blue heavens above, are they not the misty veils with
which the gods of Olympus conceal their charms?"
"Ah! sire," said Balby, with a loving glance at the king's hand some
face--"ah, sire, my eyes have no time to gaze at Nature's charms, they
are occupied with yourself. When I look upon you, I feel that man is
indeed made in the image of God."
"Were I a god, I should not be content to resemble this worn, faded
face. Come, now, let us be off! Give me your instrument, Deesen, I will
carry it. Now I look like a travelling apprentice seeking his fortune.
The world is all before him where to choose his place of rest, and
