"Yes, sire, she is young and beautiful, and declares it is also her
first love, so no one can doubt its purity; no one understands love as
well as this fair lady; no other than Madame von Kleist, who, as your
majesty remembers, was lately divorced from her husband."

"And is now free to love again, as it appears," said the king, with a
mocking smile. "But the beautiful Louise von Schwerin is a dangerous,
daring woman, and we must check her clever plans in the bud. If she
desires to be loved by my brother, she possesses knowledge, beauty, and
experience to gain her point and to lead him into all manner of follies.
This affair must be brought quickly to a close, and Prince Henry
acknowledged to be the prince royal."

"Prince Henry goes this evening to Berlin to attend a feast given by the
Prince of Prussia," whispered Pollnitz.

"Ah! it is true the prince's arrest ceases at six o'clock, but he will
not forget that he needs permission to leave Potsdam."

"He will forget it, sire."

The king walked up and down in silence, and his countenance assumed an
angry and threatening appearance. "This struggle must be brought to a
close, and that speedily. My brother must submit to my authority. Go and
watch his movements; as soon as he leaves, come to me."

Long after Pollnitz had left him, the king paced his chamber in deep
thought. "Poor Henry! I dare not sympathize with you; you are a king's
son--that means a slave to your position. Why has Providence given
hearts to kings as to other men? Why do we thirst so for love? as the
intoxicating drink is always denied us, and we dare not drink it even
when offered by the most bewitching enchantress!"

Involuntarily his eye rested upon the beautiful picture of Barbarina.
But he would have no pity with himself, as he dared not show mercy to
his brother. Seizing the silver bell, he rang it hastily.

"Take that picture from the wall, and carry it immediately to the
inspector, and tell him to hang it in the picture-gallery," said
Frederick.

He looked on quietly as the servant took the picture down and carried
it from the room, then sighed and gazed long at the plane where it had
hung.

"Empty and cold! The last token of my youth is gone! I am now the king,
and, with God's blessing, will be the father of my people."




CHAPTER II. PRINCE HENRY.


Prince Henry sat quiet and motionless in his lonely room; dark thoughts
seemed to trouble him; his brow was clouded, his lips compressed. Had
you not known him, you would have taken him for the king, so great
was the resemblance of the two brothers; but it was only an outward
resemblance. The prince had not the spiritual expression, his eyes
had not the passionate fire, his face (beautiful as it was) wanted the
fascinating geniality, the sparkling inspiration, that at all times
lighted the king's countenance like a sunbeam.

The prince possessed a greater mind, a clearer understanding, but he
wanted soul and poetic feeling, and allowed himself at times to ridicule
his brother's poetic efforts. The king, knowing this, was inclined
to regard the shortcomings of the prince as a determined contempt and
resistance to his command; and as the prince became more reckless and
more indifferent, he became more severe and harsh. Thus the struggle
commenced that had existed for some time between the two brothers.

For the last four days the prince had been in arrest for disobeying
orders, but the hour of his release was approaching, and he awaited it
with impatience.

The bell of the nearest church had just announced the hour of six.
The door opened immediately, and an officer, in the name of the king,
pronounced his arrest at an end.

The prince answered with a low bow, and remained seated, pointing
haughtily to the door; but as the officer left him he arose and paced
hastily to and fro.

"He treats me like a school-boy," he murmured; "but I shall show him
that I have a will of my own! I will not be intimidated--I will not
submit; and if the king does not cease to annoy me, if he continues to
forget that I am not a slave, but son and brother of a king, no motives
shall restrain me, and I also will forget, as he does, that I am a
prince, and remember only that I am a free, responsible man. He wishes
me to marry, and therefore has me followed, and surrounds me with spies.
He wishes to force me to marry. Well, I will marry, but I will choose my
own wife!"

The prince had just made this resolve, when the door opened, and the
servant announced that Messrs. Kalkreuth and Kaphengst awaited his
commands.

He bade them enter, and advancing smilingly gave them his hand.

"Welcome! welcome!" he said; "the cage is open, and I may enjoy a little
