Providence his guide. I envy him. He is a free man!"
"Truly, these poor apprentices would not believe that a king was envying
them their fate," said Balby, laughing.
"Still they are to be envied," said the king, "for they are free. No,
no, at present I envy no one, the world and its sunshine belong to me.
We will go to Amsterdam, and enjoy the galleries and museums."
"I thank your majesty," said Balby, laughing, "you have saved my life.
I should have died of curiosity if you had not spoken. Now, I feel
powerful and strong, and can keep pace with your majesty's wandering
steps."
Silently they walked on until they reached a sign-post.
"We are now on the border--let us bid farewell to the Prussian colors,
we see them for the last time. Sire, we will greet them with reverence."
He took off his hat and bowed lowly before the black and white colors of
Prussia, a greeting that Deesen imitated with the fervor of a patriot.
The king did not unite in their enthusiasm; he was writing with his
stick upon the ground.
"Come here, Balby, and read this," he said, pointing to the lines he had
traced. "Can you read them?"
"Certainly," said Balby, "the words are, 'majesty' and 'sire.'"
"So they are, friend. I leave these two words on the borders of Prussia;
perhaps on our return we may find and resume them. But as long as we are
on the soil of Holland there must be no majesty, no sire."
"What, then, must I call my king?"
"You must call him friend, voila tout."
"And I?" asked Deesen, respectfully. "Will your majesty be so gracious
as to tell me your name?"
"I am Mr. Zoller, travelling musician, and should any one ask you what
I want in Amsterdam, tell them I intend giving a concert. En avant, mes
amis. There lies the first small village of Holland, in an hour we
shall be there, and then we will take the stage and go a little into the
interior. En avant, en avant!"
CHAPTER XII. TRAVELLING ADVENTURES.
The stage stood before the tavern at Grave, and awaited its passengers.
The departure of the stage was an important occurrence to the
inhabitants of the little town--an occurrence that disturbed the
monotony of their lives for a few moments, and showed them at least now
and then a new face, that gave them something to think of, and made them
dream of the far-off city where the envied travellers were going.
Today all Grave was in commotion and excitement. The strangers had
arrived at the post-house, and after partaking of an excellent dinner,
engaged three seats in the stage. The good people of Grave hoped to
see three strange faces looking out of the stage window; many were the
surmises of their destiny and their possible motives for travelling.
They commenced these investigations while the strangers were still with
them.
A man had seen them enter the city, dusty and exhausted, and he declared
that the glance which the two men in brown coats had cast at his young
wife, who had come to the window at his call, was very bold--yes,
even suspicious, and it seemed very remarkable to him that such plain,
ordinary looking wanderers should have a servant, for, doubtless, the
man walking behind them, carrying the very small carpet-bag, was their
servant; but, truly, he appeared to be a proud person, and had the
haughty bearing of a general or a field-marshal, he would not even
return the friendly greetings of the people he passed. His masters could
not be distinguished or rich, for both of them carried a case under
their arms. What could be in those long cases, what secret was hidden
there? Perhaps they held pistols, and the good people of Grave would
have to deal with robbers or murderers. The appearance of the strangers
was wild and bold enough to allow of the worst suspicions.
The whole town, as before mentioned, was in commotion, and all were
anxious to see the three strangers, about whom there was certainly
something mysterious. They had the manners and bearing of noblemen, but
were dressed like common men.
A crowd of idlers had assembled before the post-house, whispering and
staring at the windows of the guests' rooms. At last their curiosity
was about to be gratified, at last the servant appeared with the little
carpet-bag, and placed it in the stage, and returned for the two cases,
whose contents they would so greedily have known. The postilion blew his
horn, the moment of departure had arrived.
A murmur was heard through the crowd, the strangers appeared, they
approached the stage, and with such haughty and commanding glances that
the men nearest them stepped timidly back.
The postilion sounded his horn again, the strangers were entering the
