air and sunshine; let us not delay to make use of this opportunity. Our
horses shall be saddled."
"They are already saddled, prince," said Baron Kalkreuth. "I have
ordered them to the court, and as soon as it is dark we will mount
them."
"What! is it not best that we should mount before my door and ride
openly away?" said the prince, wonderingly.
"It is my opinion that is the best plan," cried Baron Kaphengst,
laughing gayly. "Every one will believe your highness to be simply
taking a ride, while curiosity would be raised if we left the city on
foot."
"I think leaving in the dark, and on foot, looks as if I were afraid,"
said the prince, thoughtfully.
"Secrecy is good for priests and old women, but not for us," cried
Kaphengst.
"Secrecy suits all who wish to do wrong," said Kalkreuth, earnestly.
The prince glanced hastily at him. "You believe, then, we are about to
do wrong?"
"I dare not speak of your highness, but we two are certainly doing
wrong; we are about to commit an act of insubordination. But still, my
prince, I am ready to do so, as your highness wishes us to accompany
you."
The prince did not answer, but stepped to the window, and looked out
thoughtfully and silently. In a few moments he returned, looking calm
and resolute.
"Kalkreuth is right--we were going to do wrong, and we must avoid it.
I shall write to the king, and ask leave for you and myself to go to
Berlin."
"That is, unfortunately, impossible," said a sweet voice behind him, and
as the prince turned he saw the smiling face of Pollnitz. "I beg pardon,
your highness, for having entered unannounced, but you allowed me to
come at this hour and give you an account of the commissions you gave
me."
"Why do you say it is impossible to obtain leave of the king today?"
asked Henry, hastily.
"Because his majesty is already in the concert-saloon, and your highness
knows that he has strictly forbidden any one to disturb him there."
"We shall, then, have to give up our plan and remain here," said the
prince.
Kaphengst glanced angrily and threateningly at his friend.
"And why should your highness do this?" asked Pollnitz, astonished. "All
your preparations are made, all your commands fulfilled. I have procured
your costumes; no one will recognize you, and if they should, would not
dare to betray you to the king. Only two persons know that you are
to visit the ball, the Prince of Prussia, and a lovely lady, whose
beautiful eyes were misty with tears when I delivered her your message.
'Tell the prince,' she murmured, in a tender voice, 'I will await him
there, even if I knew the king would crush me with his anger.'"
The prince blushed with joy. "And you say it is impossible for me to see
the king?"
"Impossible, my prince."
"Well, we will have to renounce it," said the prince, sighing.
"Renounce seeing the king, yes! for he will not leave his rooms in
Sans-Souci today."
"Then we would be entirely safe; he would not notice our departure,"
said Kaphengst, quickly.
"Entirely safe," said Pollnitz.
"That is, if Baron Pollnitz does not himself inform the king," said
Baron Kalkreuth, whose quick, clear glance rested upon the smiling face
of the courtier, and appeared to read his inmost thoughts.
Baron Pollnitz cast a suspicious and angry glance at Kalkreuth. "I
did not know that borrowing money from you gave you the right to speak
rudely to me!"
"Silence! gentlemen," cried the prince, who, until now, had stood
quietly struggling with his own wishes. "Take your cloaks and let us
walk. Did you not say that horses were awaiting us at the door, Baron
Kalkreuth?"
"I said so, your highness."
"And you Pollnitz? Did you not say that three costumes awaited us in
Berlin?"
"Yes, your highness."
