"Well, then," said the prince, smiling, "we must not allow the horses
and costumes to await us any longer. Come, gentlemen, we will ride to
Berlin."

"Really it was hard to get him off," murmured Pollnitz, as he regained
the street, and saw the three young men fading in the distance. "The
good prince had quite a dutiful emotion; if the king only knew it, he
would forgive him all, and renounce the idea of his marriage. But that
would not suit me--my debts would not be paid! I must not tell the king
of his brother's inward struggle."

"Well!" said the king, as Pollnitz entered, "has my brother really gone
to Berlin?"

"Yes, your majesty, and accompanied by the two Messieurs--"

"Silence!" cried the king, hastily; "I do not wish to know their names,
I should have to punish them also. He has then gone, and without any
hesitation, any reluctance?"

"Yes, sire, without hesitation. He thinks he has the right to go where
he pleases, and to amuse himself as he can."

"Order the carriage, Pollnitz," said the king. "Without doubt my brother
has taken the shortest road to Berlin?"

"Yes, sire."

"Then there is no danger of our meeting them and being recognized; and
as we have relays on the road, we will reach Berlin before them."




CHAPTER III. LOUISE VON KLEIST.


Madame von Kleist was alone in her boudoir. She had just completed her
toilet, and was viewing herself with considerable pleasure in a
large Venetian glass. She had reason to be pleased. The costume of
an odalisque became her wonderfully; suited her luxuriant beauty, her
large, dreamy blue eyes, her full red lips, her slender, swaying form.
At twenty-eight, Louise von Kleist was still a sparkling beauty; the
many trials and sorrows she had passed through had not scattered the
roses from her cheek, nor banished youth from her heart.

Louise von Kleist resembled greatly the little Louise von Schwerin
of earlier days--the little dreamer who found it romantic to love a
gardener, and was quite ready to flee with him to a paradise of love.
The king's watchfulness saved her from this romantic folly, and gave her
another husband. This unhappy match was now at an end. Louise was again
free. She still felt in her heart some of the wild love of romance
and adventure of the little Louise; she was the same daring, dreamy,
impressible Louise, only now she was less innocent. The little coquette
from instinct was changed into a coquette from knowledge.

She stood before the glass and surveyed once more her appearance; then
acknowledged with a pleased smile that she was beautiful enough to
fascinate all men, to arouse in all hearts a painful longing.

"But I shall love no one but the prince," she said, "and when my power
over him is sufficient to induce him to marry me, I shall reward him by
my faith, and entire submission to his wishes. Oh! I shall be a virtuous
wife, a true and faithful mother; and my lovely little Camilla shall
find in her mother a good and noble example. I shall promise this to my
angel with my farewell kiss; and then--to the ball!"

She entered the next chamber, and stood at her child's bed. What a
strange sight! This woman, in a fantastic, luxuriant costume, bending
over the cot of the little girl, with such tender, pious looks, with
folded hands, and soft, murmuring lips, uttering a prayer or holy wish!

"How beautiful she is!" murmured Louise, not dreaming that her own
beauty at this moment beamed with touching splendor--that mother love
had changed the alluring coquette into an adorable saint--"how beautiful
she is!"

The gay, ringing laughter of her daughter interrupted her; the child
opened her large black eyes, and looked amused.

"You naughty child, you were not asleep," said Louise.

"No, mamma, I was not asleep; I was playing comedy."

"Ah! and who taught you to play comedy, you silly child?" said Louise,
tenderly.

The child looked earnestly before her for a few moments as children are
wont to do when a question surprises them.

"I believe, mamma," she said, slowly--"I believe I learned it from you."

"From me, Camilla? When have you seen me act?"

"Oh, very often," she cried, laughing. "Just a few days ago, mamma,
don't you remember when we were laughing and talking so merrily
together, Prince Henry was announced, and you sent me into the next
room, but the door was open, and I saw very well that you made a sad
face, and I heard the prince ask you how you were, and you answered, 'I
am sick, your highness, and how could it be otherwise, as I am always
