command, went after you, and married you--from that day, he had been a
lost man, and when he said that, you cried, but did not tell him, as you
told me, that it was not true."
Louise did not answer. This last taunt had crushed her heart, and
silenced her. Still leaning on the bed, she looked at her child with
painful tenderness. Camilla's mocking laughter had pierced her soul as
with a dagger.
"Lost," she murmured, "both of us lost!"
With passionate despair she threw her arms around the child, and pressed
her closely; kissed her wildly again and again, and covered her face
with burning tears.
"No, Camilla, no! you shall not be lost, you must remain good and pure!
Every child has its guardian angel; pray, my child, pray that your angel
may watch over you!"
She pressed her again in her arms, then returned to her chamber, sadder
and more hopeless than she had ever been before.
But this unusual sadness commenced to annoy her; her heart was not
accustomed to feel sorrow, and her remorseful, dreary feeling made her
shudder. "If the carriage would but come!" she murmured, and then, as
if to excuse her thoughtlessness, she added, "it is now my holy duty to
listen to the prince; I must regain the respect of my child. Yes, yes,
I must become the wife of Henry I I can accomplish this, for the prince
loves me truly."
And now, she was again the coquette, whose captivating smile harmonized
perfectly with her alluring costume--no longer the tender mother, no
longer the sinner suffering from repentance and self-reproach.
She stood before the glass, and arranged her disordered dress and
smoothed her dishevelled hair.
"I must be bewitching and fascinating," she murmured, with a smile that
showed two rows of pearl-like teeth; "the prince must gain courage from
my glance, to offer me his hand. Oh, I know he is quite prepared to do
so, if it were only to annoy his brother!" As she saw the carriage drive
up, she exclaimed, with sparkling eyes, "The battle begins--to victory!"
CHAPTER IV. AT THE MASKED BALL.
The feast had commenced. As Louise von Kleist, the beautiful odalisque,
entered the dancing-saloon, she was almost blinded by the gay and
sparkling assembly. The fairy-like and fantastic robes sparkled with
gold and jewels. The sea of light thrown from the crystal chandelier
upon the mirrors and ornaments of the brilliant saloon dazzled the eye.
The entertainments of the Prince of Prussia were renowned for their
taste and splendor.
Unrecognized, the beautiful Louise slipped through the gay assembly of
masks, and, when detecting some friends under the muffled forms of
their disguise, she murmured their names, and some mischievous and witty
remark; then springing gayly on to shoot again her arrow, and excite
astonishment and surprise.
"Oh, that life were a masked ball!" she murmured softly to herself,
"mysterious and sweet! where you find more than you seek, and guess more
than is known. No one recognizes me here. The brave and handsome
Count Troussel, who is leaning against that pillar, and casting such
melancholy glances through the crowd, hunting for the one his heart
adores, never dreams that she is standing opposite him, and is laughing
at his perplexity. No, he does not recognize me, and no one knows my
costume but the prince and Pollnitz, and as they have not yet found me,
I conclude they have not arrived. I will therefore amuse myself during
their absence."
She was just approaching the sentimental cavalier, when she suddenly
felt her arm touched, and, turning around, saw two masks wrapped in dark
dominoes before her.
"Beautiful odalisque, I bring you your sultan." murmured one of them, in
whom she recognized Baron Pollnitz.
"And where is my sultan?" she asked.
"Here," said the second mask, offering the beautiful lady his arm.
Louise saw those glorious eyes beaming upon her through his mask-eyes
which the king and Prince Henry alone possessed.
"Ah, my prince!" she murmured softly and reproachfully, "you see that it
is I who have waited."
The prince did not answer, but conducted her hastily through the crowd.
They had soon reached the end of the saloon. A small flight of steps
led them to a little boudoir opening on a balcony. Into this boudoir
Pollnitz led the silent pair, then bowing low he left them.
"My God! your highness, if we should be surprised here!"
"Fear nothing, we will not be surprised. Pollnitz guards the door. Now,
as we are alone and undisturbed, let us lay aside our disguises."
