Thus speaking, the supposed prince removed his mask and laid it upon the
table.

"The king!" cried Louise, terrified and stepping back.

The king's eyes rested upon her with a piercing glance. "What!" he
asked, "are you still acting? You appear astonished; and still you must
have known me. Who but the king would show the beautiful Madame von
Kleist such an honor? In what other cavalier could you place such
perfect confidence as to accompany him into this lonely boudoir? With
whom but the king could you have trusted your fair fame? You need not
be alarmed; to be in my presence is to be under my protection--the kind
guardianship of your king. I thank you that you knew me, and, knowing
me, followed me trustingly."

The searching glance of the king alarmed Louise; his mocking words
bewildered her, and she was incapable of reply.

She bowed silently, and allowed herself to be conducted to the divan.

"Sit down, and let us chat awhile," said the king. "You know I hate the
noise of a feast, and love to retire into some corner, unnoticed and
unseen. I had no sooner discovered the fair Louise under this charming
costume, than I knew I had found good company. I ordered Pollnitz
to seek out for us some quiet spot, where we might converse freely.
Commence, therefore."

"Of what shall I speak, your majesty?" said Louise, confused and
frightened. She knew well that the king had not found her by chance, but
had sought her with a determined purpose.

"Oh! that is a question whose naivete reminds me of the little Louise
Schwerin of earlier days. Well, let us speak on that subject which
interests most deeply all who know you; let us speak of your happiness.
You sigh. Have you already paid your tribute? Do you realize the
fleetness of all earthly bliss?"

"Ah! your majesty, an unhappy marriage is the most bitter offering
that can be made to experience," sighed Madame von Kliest. "My life was
indeed wretched until released by your kindness from that bondage."

"Ah, yes, it is true you are divorced. When and upon whom will you now
bestow this small, white hand?"

Louise looked up astonished. "What!" she stammered, confused, "your
majesty means--"

"That you will certainly marry again. As beautiful a lady as you will
always be surrounded by lovers, and I sincerely hope that you will
marry. You should go forward as an example to my brothers, your youthful
playmates, and I will tell my brother Henry that marriage is not so bad
a thing, as the beautiful Madame von Kleist has tried it for the second
time."

"I doubt very much, sire," said Louise, timidly, "if the example of so
insignificant a person would have the desired effect upon the prince."

"You do yourself injustice. The prince has too strong an admiration for
you, not to be influenced by your encouraging example. My brother must
and shall marry according to his birth. I am assured that, contrary to
my wishes and commands, he is about to make a secret and illegitimate
marriage. I am not yet acquainted with the name of his wily mistress,
but I shall learn it, and, when once noted in my memory, woe be unto
her, for I shall never acknowledge such a marriage, and I shall take
care that his mistress is not received at court--she shall be regarded
as a dishonored woman."

"Your majesty is very stern and pitiless toward the poor prince," said
Madame Kleist, who had succeeded in suppressing her own emotions, and,
following the lead of the king, she was desirous to let it appear that
the subject was one of no personal interest to herself.

"No," said the king, "I am not cruel and not pitiless. I must forget
that I am a brother, and remember only I am a king, not only for the
good of my family, but for the prosperity of my people. My brother must
marry a princess of wealth and influence. Tell Prince Henry this. Now,"
said the king, with an engaging smile, "let us speak of your lovely
self. You will, of course, marry again. Have you not confidence enough
in me to tell me the name of your happy and favored lover?"

"Sire," said Louise, smiling, "I do not know it myself, and to show what
unbounded confidence I have in your majesty, I modestly confess that I
am not positively certain whether among my many followers there is
one who desires to be the successor of Kleist. It is easy to have many
lovers, but somewhat difficult to marry suitably."

"We need a marrying man to chase away the crowd of lovers," said the
king, smiling. "Think awhile--let your lovers pass in review before
you--perhaps you may find among them one who is both ardent and
desirable."

Louise remained thoughtful for a few moments. The king observed her
closely.

"Well," he said, after a pause, "have you made your selection?"

Madame von Kleist sighed, and her beautiful bright eyes filled with
tears. She took leave of her most cherished and ambitious dream--bade
farewell to her future of regal pomp and splendor.

