"Yes, sire, I have found an e'poitseur, who only needs encouragement, to
offer me his heart and hand."
"Is he of good family?"
"Yes, sire."
"Military?"
"Yes, sire. He wears only a captain's epaulets. Your majesty sees that I
am modest."
"On the day of his marriage he shall be major. When the Church
pronounces her blessing, the king's blessing shall not be wanting. We
are, of course, agreed. When will you be engaged?"
"Sire, that depends upon my lover, and when I succeed in bringing him to
terms."
"We will say in eight days. You see I am anxious to become speedily
acquainted with one blissful mortal, and I think that the husband of the
beautiful Madame Kleist will be supremely happy. In eight days, then,
you will be engaged, and, to complete your good work, you must announce
this happy fact to my brother Henry. Of course, he must not even surmise
that you sacrifice yourself in order to set him a good example. No, you
will complete your noble work, and tell him that a love which you could
not control induced you to take this step; and that he may not doubt
your words, you will tell your story cheerfully--yes, joyously."
"Sire, it is too much--I cannot do it," cried Madame von Kleist. "It is
enough to trample upon my own heart; your majesty cannot desire me to
give the prince his death-blow."
The king's eyes flashed angrily, but he controlled himself.
"His death!" he repeated, shrugging his shoulders, "as if men died of
such small wounds. You know better yourself. You know that the grave
of one love is the cradle of another. Be wise, and do as I tell you: in
eight days you will be engaged, and then you will have the kindness to
acquaint Prince Henry with your happy prospects."
"Ah, sire, do not be so cruel as to ask this of me," cried Louise,
gliding from the divan upon her knees, "be merciful. I am ready to obey
the commands of my king, to make the sacrifice that is asked of me--let
it not be too great a one. Your majesty asks that I shall draw down the
contempt of the man I love upon myself; that this man must not only
give me up, but scorn me. You require too much. This is more than the
strongest, bravest heart can endure. Your majesty knows that the prince
loves me passionately. Ah, sire, your brother would have forfeited his
rank and your favor by marrying me, but he would have been a happy man;
and I ask the king if that is not, at last, the best result? Are you,
sire, content and happy since you trampled your breathing, loving heart
to death at the foot of the throne? You command your brother to do as
you have done. Well, sire, I submit--not only to resign the prince, but
to marry again, to marry without love. Perhaps my soul will be lost by
this perjury, but what matters that--it is a plaything in the hands
of the king? He may break my heart, but it shall not be dishonored and
trodden in the dust. The prince shall cease to love me, but I will not
be despised by him. He shall not think me a miserable coquette, despise,
and laugh at me. Now, sire, you can crush me in your anger. I have said
what I had to say--you know my decision."
She bowed her head almost to the earth; motionless, kneeling at the foot
of the king, her hands folded on her breast, she might in reality have
been taken for an odalisque but that her sad, tearful face was not in
unison with the situation or costume.
A long pause ensued--a solemn, fearful pause. The king struggled
with his rage, Louise with her disappointment and distress. Sounds of
laughter, the gay notes of music reached them from the dancing-saloon.
The ball had commenced, and youth and beauty were mingling in the dance.
These sounds aroused the king, and the sad contrast made Louise shudder.
"You will not, then, comply with my request?" said the king, sternly.
"Sire, I cannot!" murmured Louise, raising her hands imploringly to the
king.
"You cannot!" cried the king, whose face glowed with anger; "you cannot,
that means you will not, because your vain, coquettish heart will not
resign the love of the prince. You submit to resign his hand, because
you must; but you wish to retain his love: he must think of you as a
heavenly ideal, to be adored and longed for, placed amongst the stars
for worship. Ah, madame, you are not willing to make the gulf between
you impassable! You say you wish, at least, to retain the respect of
Prince Henry. I ask you, madame, what you have done to deserve his
respect? You were an ungrateful and undutiful daughter; you did not
think of the shame and sorrow you prepared for your parents, when you
arranged your flight with the gardener. I succeeded in rescuing you from
dishonor by marrying you to a brave and noble cavalier. It depended upon
you entirely to gain his love and respect, but you forgot your duty as
a wife, as you had forgotten it as a daughter. You had no pity with the
faults and follies of your husband, you drove him to despair. At
last, to drown his sorrows, he became a drunkard, and you, instead of
remaining at his side to encourage and counsel him, deserted him, and
so heartlessly exposed his shame that I, to put an end to the scandal,
permitted your divorce. You not only forgot your duty as a wife and
daughter, but also as a mother. You have deprived your child of a
father, you have made her an orphan; you have soiled, almost depraved
her young soul; and now, after all this, you wish to be adored and
